[TV static drones]
[bright tone]
[tense jazzy music]
♪ ♪
- Then the Lord said,
"I have seen the affliction
of my people who are in Egypt
"and have heard their cries
because of their taskmasters.
"I know they're suffering and
I have come down to deliver
"them out of the hands
of the Egyptians and to bring
"them up out of that land
to a good and broad land,
a land flowing with
milk and honey."
Yeah.
God sends Moses
to be the deliverer,
then throws a curve ball.
God hardens
Pharaoh's heart
so Pharaoh won't
let the Israelites go.
Moses, set my people free,
Pharaoh, keep 'em captive.
Hey, God,
whose side are you on?
- Schillinger,
congratulations.
- For what?
- It's a boy,
a bouncing baby boy.
Your son
arrived yesterday.
- Which unit's he in?
- Your favorite,
Emerald City.
- I got to see Glynn.
Now!
Beecher, Keller and O'Reilly
have been waiting at the gate
to fuck with me.
Now, McManus gives 'em
my boy on a silver platter.
Your daughter
was attacked, right?
She was beaten, raped.
You know what it is to
want to protect your own.
- And you're asking me to...
- Put Andy in
Unit B with me.
- You must really love
your son, Schillinger,
to come in here
and ask me for a favor.
It must chewing up
your insides to have to
stand here in my office
begging me for your son's life,
'cause that's what
you're doing, right?
Begging.
- Yes.
- Think of all the times
I've needed something from you
and you just sit here with that
stupid-ass grin on your face
singing "do-dah."
- This is my son,
goddammit.
- I thought you had two sons.
- Yeah, I do.
- Maybe you'll be
luckier with the second.
Take him away.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- [sniffs]
- Why would McManus put
Schillinger's kid here
knowing the history?
You think he's
trying to set us up?
- No.
McManus hates
that Nazi fuck more than we do.
Maybe he's looking for us to
come up with the right move.
- Right move.
What's that?
You think he wants
us to whack the kid?
- No. Schillinger hates
that his son uses drugs.
Andy boy's been here a couple
of days and he's already bought
a shitload of tits
off of me.
So what do you say
we let Andy boy suck on the tit
till he O.D.'s?
- Or...
- Or what?
- O'Reilly, I need
some more of that good shit.
- Coming right up,
buddy boy.
- Yo, Vern,
nice fucking kid.
[indistinct chatter]
- Andrew. Andrew.
Hey, Andrew.
Hey.
- Oh, hey, Dad.
- You piece of shit.
Hey, Lopresti.
- Yeah?
- This fucking prison still
have a no-drug policy?
- Yeah.
Come with me.
- Fuck you, Dad!
[inmates clamoring]
[cheers and applause]
- [grunts]
- I want my son in
your rehab group.
- Well, that's fine, Vern,
but an addict will only quit
doing drugs when
he decides it's time.
- You ought to
get curtains.
- Poor Vern.
Worried about his son?
- Listen, Tobias.
I'm going to bring Andrew
into the group.
I hope that won't
be a problem for you.
- Not at all.
I'll look forward to it.
- Ah, yeah. Good.
Uh, everybody,
let's welcome Andrew.
- Hey, Andrew.
- So, Andrew,
the idea here is for us
to talk about ourselves,
our feelings,
our addictions,
in the hope that
we find the cause.
So why don't you tell us
what you're addicted to.
- Go fuck yourself.
- Hey, scumbag,
this is a nun.
You don't talk to
her that way.
- Yeah?
Fuck you too.
- Fuck me?
Fuck you.
- Wait a minute.
- Hey, back off.
- Officer!
- Jesus fucking Christ,
what is this bullshit?
Come on, you fuck.
- Hey, you're supposed to
punch me in the stomach.
- I had to look legit,
like Mark Mack's nose, right?
Where's the kid?
- He's there.
- What do you mean,
no more tits?
- I got a lot of customers.
You've been burning through my
inventory like a motherfucker.
So until a new shipment
comes in, you're cut off.
- Oh, fuck you.
You ain't the only
one dealing.
- Hey, there's me
and there's them.
And I know based on your
beliefs, you ain't trafficking
with anyone who ain't
your color.
- Hey, you okay?
- Can you get me
some tits, man?
- Sorry.
- You must think
I'm an idiot.
You want me to move
Keller out of your pod
and move
Andrew Schillinger in?
- You're wondering what I'm
going to do to the son of a guy
who double-fucked me.
- It crossed my mind.
- McManus, the kid's been
here how many days?
I haven't hurt him, though I've
had plenty of opportunities.
The truth is after
seeing him in group,
my heart goes
out to Andrew.
With a fuck like
Schillinger for a father,
you can understand why
a kid would turn to drugs.
God knows I've been there.
I think I can help him.
I want to help him.
- Look, Beecher.
Sister Pete says
you stood up for him.
- Andrew's sharing a pod
with another Aryan.
Schillinger's told his pals
to ignore him.
So the kid's becoming
more and more isolated
and you don't want that.
Not that I would pretend
to know what you do want
or why you brought him to
Em City in the first place.
- You must have been
a pretty good lawyer.
You can be fairly persuasive
when you want to be.
- When it's important.
- He gets hurt, it's your ass.
- Little Andrew's
going to be as safe
as if he was in
his mother's arms.
[indistinct chatter]
- Hey.
By the way,
thanks for hitting that guy.
You know,
standing up for me.
- It's okay.
I know what it's like
to be on the bottom bunk.
- [laughs]
- You got any tattoos?
- Yeah, a couple.
- [sniffs]
- [gasps softly]
- Very nice.
- Hey, how about you?
- I got one.
- Yeah?
Let me see.
- Some day.
We don't know each
other that well yet.
- [laughs]
- Plague.
God plagues
the mighty Pharaoh
for not letting
the Israelites go.
God smites Pharaoh
with the first of 10 disasters.
One morning, old boy Pharaoh
strolls down to the beach,
you know, for a swim,
for a tan, something.
He goes down,
checks--oh!
All the water in the Nile
has turned to blood.
- McManus, be in
my office at noon.
- What for?
- Meeting with the president
of the officer's union
and the state's attorney.
You might want to have
your lawyer present.
- Why?
- Claire Howell is suing you
for sexual harassment.
- What?
- You should have told me
when you asked me to fire her
that you had
been fucking her.
- As head
of the officer's union,
I want assurances
that this sort of thing
doesn't happen again.
All staff members are
going to have to undergo
some sort of intense
sensitivity training.
And I want
Officer Claire Howell
immediately reinstated
in her job.
- Wait a minute,
Mr. Strauch.
I think we're getting
ahead of ourselves.
My client did not
harass Officer Howell.
- There are inmates, Ms. Beiter,
who will testify to having seen
Mr. McManus force himself
on her in his office.
If anyone was the aggressor
here, it was Claire.
She came into my office.
She asked me out.
- Dinner is not
an invitation to sex.
- I agree. We ate.
We went to the parking lot
to get our cars.
We started kissing.
Next thing, we were back
at my place naked.
- So, the sex was consensual.
- Yes.
Two or three nights later,
we sleep together again.
She started to assume that
the relationship was a lot
farther along
than I did.
I told her
I wanted it to stop.
She got pissed,
threatening.
That's what
the inmates saw.
- Then you had her fired.
- She was fired because
she was incompetent,
not because I didn't
want to fuck her anymore.
- Mr. Strauch,
inform Officer Howell
that the State will
settle this out of court.
She can return to work
as soon as she likes.
- You say one word to me
and I'll scream.
[gate buzzes]
- I must go,
I have a visitor.
It's my sister.
- Goodson, I asked to see you
because I received
a rather troubling visit
from a young woman.
- Patricia Ross.
- Yes.
Then you do know her.
- Yeah, she's a plaintiff
in the lawsuit
we're bringing
against the State.
Her brother was
murdered during the riot.
- Oh, I see.
- Why did she come to see you?
- She said she's been
trying to reach you,
that you've been
ignoring her.
- Yes, I have.
- Why?
Thought so.
She's in love with you
and you're in love with her.
- We've only seen
each other twice.
- Since when does it
take more than that?
Now, Goodson, when you
turned your back on our faith,
became a Muslim,
I took it very personally,
like you had somehow
rejected me and Daddy.
- I know you did, but it
wasn't about that at all.
- The worst thing
you've ever done, though,
was before that when you were
going to marry Marilyn Crenshaw.
I could never understand how you
fell in love with that woman.
- Why don't you say
what you mean?
That white woman!
- Yes, that white woman.
And here you go again.
For all your talk,
for all your fervor,
there is still some part of you
that wants to be
something you are not.
How many more people are you
going to have to hurt before
you resign yourself to
the fact that you are exactly
what you are.
- And what is that?
I am black, I am a Muslim
and I am a man.
And sometimes
those three things...
They war with each other.
I'm not proud of my feelings
for Tricia Ross,
but I am not ashamed
of them either.
Because sweet, sweet sister,
when I stop my feelings,
when I shut down my emotions,
then this prison,
it has truly won.
[door opens]
[knocking]
- Yo, Said, man.
You know that thing you
did with the hunger strike,
how you beat the hacks
at their own game...
- Yeah.
- Man, I know
I let you down.
I know you worked hard
to get me published,
to get me free,
and I fucked up.
I fucked up.
But I'm saying, man,
I ain't even been writing
because I mean,
I wanted to punish myself,
but I miss it,
Minister.
Without poetry, man,
I'm half of myself.
- [scoffs]
You're asking
my permission to write?
Then write, my brother.
- You know what?
I will. I will.
And the very first poem that I
write is going to be dedicated
to you and how you
inspire all of us...
- No, don't write that.
You're going to write,
you write for yourself,
for your own soul,
not because of me.
I'm no better
than you, you know?
I'm just a punk
like all the rest.
- I was so glad you--
- Shh.
Let's not talk.
I am done with talking.
♪ ♪
- So you've confessed
to breaking Beecher's
arms and legs.
- I broke his arms.
Schillinger
broke his legs.
- Oh, yeah, that's right.
So then you feel
less guilty, right,
'cause you only
broke his arms?
- Nun first or shrink first?
- Shrink.
- Ah.
What made you want to crawl
inside other people's heads?
- I thought
I could help them.
- And you do.
- Sometimes.
Sometimes I can get a fellow
to see life from a slightly
different angle
and then maybe,
maybe he can cope
a little better.
- Slightly.
A little?
You measure everything
in all of these small steps.
- Well, you have to.
I mean, there's rarely
any dramatic breakthroughs.
Everything is stops
and starts and stutter steps.
- And it frustrates you?
It hurts you.
- Hurts me?
No. No, no.
I was trained not to take
any of that personally.
- That's a tough lesson.
- Oh, yeah.
- Especially here.
- I mean, it's not your fault
that your patients
don't get better.
Still you worry.
You wonder...
If you're just not good enough.
[bell rings]
Oh, time's up.
Visiting hours, one of my
ex-wives is coming to visit me.
- Goddamn.
Did you see Keller's ex?
- What?
- Gorgeous goddamn motherfucker.
[both muttering]
- Hey, Pete, I heard you got
Leo to agree to let Alvarez
participate in
the victim-offender program.
- Yeah.
I'm on my way to talk
to Alvarez right now.
- Oh, great.
I'll come along.
- Mm, Ray, I don't think
that would be a good idea.
I know you were there for
Alvarez since he came to Oz,
but in order for this to work,
I need to establish
a rapport with him,
you know, separate from you.
- Well, I want
to be involved.
- Yeah, I know you do,
but you can't.
From now on this is between
Alvarez and Rivera and me.
- [screaming]
[indistinct chatter]
[lock clicks]
- Miguel, I want to talk
to you about officer Rivera.
Would you be willing to
meet with him face to face?
- With Rivera?
- Yeah.
- Me?
- For what?
- Yeah.
- Well, so he can ask questions,
express his feelings,
and to give you the opportunity
to take responsibility
for blinding him.
- What do you call this?
I take responsibility
every fucking day.
- No, no, no.
Miguel,
this is not remorse.
This is only
punishment.
- Rivera wants to see me?
- Well, I can't speak to him
until I know
you're willing to cooperate.
Will you?
- Yeah.
- Oh, that's great.
Good.
Now, the warden has
agreed to release you
from solitary while you're
participating in the program.
- What's the deal?
I know Glynn's not going
to let me out for free.
What's he want?
- At some point you're going
to have to tell him
who raped
his daughter, Ardeth.
- Or what?
- Or you come back here.
[sighs] It's up to you.
Miguel...
this isn't a way out.
It's a way in.
Understand?
Okay.
[keys jingling]
Hello?
Is Eugene there?
Oh, Tina, hi.
This is
Sister Peter Marie Reimondo
calling from Oswald.
I was wondering,
could I come over there
to see you and Eugene?
Or you could
come here if you'd like.
- Oh, shit.
Am I seeing things?
Is that Alvarez?
What's up, Miguelito?
You look really
well rested, man.
- You want us
to forgive Alvarez?
- There is no expectation
of forgiveness.
- Come on, Sister.
We're Catholic too.
We know what you're after.
- I'm not here as a nun,
not even as a psychologist.
I'm here simply to encourage
discussion, to listen,
to help clarify your feelings.
- Clarify?
What the fuck does that mean,
clarify?
Clarify what?
- Tina.
- No, Eugene.
What do you need to clarify
to that piece of shit?
He gouged your eyes out,
blind forever.
Forget solitary.
Alvarez should be
on death row, end of story.
Why do you want to
go through with this crap?
- Baby, you don't have
to be here, but I do.
And I need you
to understand that.
- Who says Alvarez is gonna
give Eugene what he wants?
- If I sense a dead end,
it's over.
And either party can call
it quits at any time.
- Know what I want?
To look at him in the eye,
just for a second.
To have him see me,
what he did,
and to find out why.
Why?
[eerie tones]
- Why?
That's what Pharaoh's
asking himself.
Why is there blood
in the Nile?
He asks his priests
and his soothsayers,
but before
they can figure it out,
swarms of frogs
hop out of the water
and into the Egyptians' homes,
into their beds and bathtubs
and mixing bowls.
Pharaoh says, enough.
The Israelites can
get the fuck out.
"Yippee," says Moses.
And then God hardens
Pharaoh's heart again.
At the last minute,
Pharaoh decides
the Israelites can't leave.
Suddenly, the dust of Egypt
turns to gnats and flies.
Now, imagine your house,
your office, your whole city
filled with flies.
Imagine the noise,
all the buzzing in your head.
And bug spray won't be
invented for 4,000 years yet.
- ¿Qué pasa contigo?
Get the fuck out
of here, man.
Yo, what, man?
Somebody cut off your tongue
like your old man?
What's up, Miguel?
All of a sudden,
you're back in Em City
and you ain't got
nothing to say?
- I did what you asked me.
You ain't got nothing
to say to me?
- You want to talk,
we can talk.
You can start by telling me
what the fuck you're doing
out of solitary?
- Yeah, you suck the warden's
dick or something?
- Cállate, Guerra.
- Reimondo's got me
on some new program.
- Bullshit.
You gave us up.
- I gave you up?
[speaks Spanish]
- Blood in, blood out,
Alvarez.
You made a pledge.
- I'm in, El Cid.
I'm in.
- Good.
Listen, man.
Now, Carlo Ricardo,
he was boxing for us.
He fucked up.
He's in the hole.
I hear you used to box.
- Yeah.
- All you got to do
is beat some fag.
- They got me on some
of these drugs, you know.
Stop me from going crazy.
- Crazy is good, bro.
Crazy wins fights.
Stop taking that shit, man,
it's no good for you.
[machinery squeaking]
[tense music]
[bell ringing]
♪ ♪
- Cyril, let's go.
Come on.
Get up.
First, we got to go work
the kitchen and we gotta go box.
- I don't want to box today.
- Relax, Cyril.
Your next fight's not
for two weeks.
- I don't wanna box anymore.
- Cyril, I'm getting sick and
tired of your fucking whining.
Now, get your ass
out of bed.
- Hey, O'Reilly, your brother
looked good in the ring
the other day, man.
- What can I say?
He gives good hook.
- Yo, Alvarez, you've got your
first fight today, huh, man?
- Yeah,
I fight Jason Cramer.
- The faggot?
My money's on you, cuz.
- Speaking of money,
Guerra,
you bet me Cyril
would lose to Robson.
Pay up.
- Shit.
I still can't
figure out what happened.
- Robson lost, period.
Cyril won,
exclamation point.
- There's no way
Robson got beat fair.
- You accusing me
of cheating, Guerra?
- You want to
back off, O'Reilly?
Nobody's accusing nobody.
- Better luck later.
- Later.
[camera shutter clicks]
[dramatic musical sting]
- Prisoner #98C931,
Jason Cramer.
Convicted September 6th, '98,
murder in the first degree,
kidnapping, assault
with a dangerous instrument.
Life imprisonment without
the possibility of parole.
[church bells tolling]
- Hiya, O'Reilly.
- Hey, Cramer.
- You all ready
for your big fight?
- Feeling good.
- Looking good.
'Course so is
Miguel Alvarez.
I gotta tell ya, Jason,
you going in the ring against
Alvarez, you got balls.
- I didn't think
you noticed.
- 'course,
you're gonna need 'em.
- [scoffs]
What do you mean?
- I overheard Hernandez
talking to the other spics.
They say if you lose,
they're gonna gang-bang Anthony.
- My Anthony?
- That's what they said.
- Those fucks better not put
their paws on my little Anthony.
- Odds are 50:1
in Miguel's favor.
- Oh, sure.
Nobody thinks a fag
can defend himself.
But let me tell you
something, O'Reilly,
there's only two things
that I know how to do,
fight and suck.
- Next.
- Nice roll, O'Reilly.
You know the rule,
all betting goes through me.
- Yeah, sure.
- You ain't by any chance
doing some side action?
- No, no.
This is just some extra green
I've been saving up, you know?
- As a sign of good faith,
maybe you ought to
give me a little slice.
- How little?
- 25%.
You got Alvarez
for the fight today, right?
- Uh-uh.
I'm betting on the faggot.
- That's crazy.
- That's me.
[eerie tones]
♪ ♪
- You got it?
- I got it.
- Cool.
Let me see it.
- O'Reilly, I know
it's none of my business,
but this is the second time
you've asked me to take
chloral hydrate
from the hospital ward.
What're you doing
with the stuff?
- Hey, you're right;
it's none of your business.
♪ ♪
[bell dings]
[crowd shouting]
- Yeah! Come on!
[crowd cheering]
- [pants, groans]
[referee shouting]
- Get up, get up!
[crowd roars]
- Three, four, five,
six, seven.
Come to me.
[bell dings]
[crowd cheering and whistling]
- Yo, faggot! You faggot!
- All right, come on!
[indistinct shouting]
[bell dings]
[slo-mo cheering]
[distorted voices]
[blows landing]
[crowd cheering]
[crowd roars]
[cheers and applause]
- Five!
[blows landing]
[bell dings]
- Come on, Alvarez!
[indistinct]
- What's wrong
with you, man?
You're getting your ass kicked
by a fucking faggot.
Now, come on, man.
What, are you having
a fucking orgasm?
Yo, come on, man.
You're getting
your ass kicked.
[bell dings]
[crowd cheering]
[blows landing]
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- That's it!
- Yes!
[crowd cheering and whistling]
- Whoo!
- Darkness.
For three days straight,
only darkness.
Think of it.
Sitting in your house
for three days,
no lights, no TV,
not even the flashlight
you keep for blackouts.
Pharaoh just sitting there
on his throne, in the dark,
wondering
when it's all gonna end.
All 'cause of God.
Doesn't make sense, does it,
Pharaoh taking the blame
for what
God was gonna do anyway?
Fuck yeah,
it makes sense.
The Pharaohs brought it on
themselves and their people.
430 years
the Israelites were slaves,
one Pharaoh
after another.
No one gets away with that,
dead or alive.
- Fuck me, man.
Oh!
[indistinct murmuring]
- Fuckin' tits!
- Nooter and Pecky
are funny.
- Who?
- The puppets.
- Oh, yeah, the puppets.
- I had a dream last night
that I just came between
Miss Sally's breasts.
- You shouldn't talk
like that about Miss Sally.
She's a goddess.
- Goddess?
She a ho.
- What the fuck is this?
Not the fucking
god squad again.
Man, sit the fuck down.
- We know why
you watch this show.
- Oh, sit down, man.
- It's not
for its educational value.
- Shut the fuck up,
you jizzball.
- But out of lust.
[all clamoring]
- Sermon's over, Cudney.
Move away.
- No.
- Lock down,
lock down!
[bell rings]
[all shouting angrily]
- Hey, champ.
- Hey, don't distract me.
I'm beating the shit
out of Kareem Said.
- Who would've thought Jason
Cramer'd beat Miguel Alvarez?
Tim, how's officer Hughes
making out?
- You want the truth?
- Yeah.
- He's just hanging on.
- What's the matter
with him?
- I don't know, man.
I just don't think
he has what it takes.
Why?
- I'm just curious.
- [scoffs] You asked me
to bring him into Em City.
That's a lot more
than curious, Leo.
- Clayton's dad and I
were C.O.'s back when.
We're like brothers, you know,
looking out for each other,
scheduling
our shifts together.
Sam died 17 years ago.
Killed in Oz.
- No shit.
- Clayton is his only son.
- Yo, Alvarez.
Great fight, man.
- What are you talking about?
Fucking lost.
- Yeah, but I won.
[laughter]
- How come everybody
you bet on wins?
- What can I say?
I got a gift.
- Miguel, how's it feel to get
your ass whooped by a faggot?
- You better watch
your fucking mouth.
- Whatcha gonna do, hit me
with your purse, motherfucker?
- That's enough, you two.
- You made us look bad, Alvarez.
You made us look like
a bunch of maricones.
- Fuck you.
- Get off him!
[stun gun crackling]
- How did a goddamn stun gun
make it through security?
- Well, probably the same way
that drugs get through.
- I'm gonna find out
who had his eyes closed.
- Oh, wait a minute.
Wait a minute, Leo.
What about Hughes?
The guy who used
the stun gun?
He's tangled
with the Latinos,
he smuggles in
an illegal weapon,
he zaps Hernandez
for a minor infraction.
The guy's out of
fucking control, Leo.
- You don't understand
what it's like being a C.O.
- Oh, come on.
- You never have
and you never will.
Look, Hughes fucked up
and I will deal with it.
Case closed.
[knocking]
Come in.
- Leo, I'm sorry,
I...
- Come here.
Get over here.
Look at that.
- What?
- Closer.
- What about it?
What the fuck!
- That's how fast it was
for your father to die.
You think
you're invincible, Clayton?
Making your own set of rules?
- I needed an extra advantage
to get respect.
- Respect?
- I said I'm sorry.
It won't happen again.
- No, it won't happen again.
- Are you gonna fire me?
- I'm transferring you
to the library, permanently.
- The library?
Leo, I can't work
in the fucking--
- Go.
I've got work to do,
like explaining
this wrist slap to my staff.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
[laughter]
[both moaning and laughing]
- Morning.
- Getting ready to go
to the city for your appeal?
- Uh-huh.
I don't know, I woke up today,
got a good feeling.
- Well, I hope the judge
overturns your verdict.
'Course, if he does,
I'll never see you again.
I'll miss you, Richie.
- Yeah, but if they don't
overturn the verdict...
I decided I'm gonna
do what you suggested.
I'm gonna tell the cops
that Schillinger and I
killed Alexander Vogel
together.
At least if I have to die,
he'll die too.
Get some justice.
- Good boy.
Hey, I'm almost done
with your sweater.
- Okay, Hanlon,
let's go.
- Au revoir, Shirley.
- No.
Goodbye, my darling.
- [speaks Russian]
Thieves-in-law.
We would dress up
as police officers
and rob the homes
of wealthy Russians.
But I got caught,
sent to Tulun.
But fortunately, I was
able to bribe a magistrate
and was released early.
So I came to America
to find a better life.
- How did the INS let you in
with a criminal record?
- They didn't.
I lied on the application.
But the Ministry
of Internal Affairs in Moscow,
they informed the FBI,
followed me, wiretaps,
so here I am.
- Big news, boys.
Richie Hanlon's murder
conviction got overturned.
Some loophole
in the law.
He squeezed through.
- Hanlon killed
Alexander Vogel.
- Yeah.
You said you knew Vogel.
- He was my enemy.
- And they're setting
Hanlon free?
- No, no, no.
He's still got to serve time
for the original drug arrest.
- You think they'll bring
Hanlon back to Em City?
- He's on his way back now.
- Well, this is
cause to celebrate.
I have in my cell some vodka.
- You do?
Wow.
Real Russian vodka?
- How did you get it in?
- [speaks Russian]
When life is good, it's better
not to question why.
[gate buzzes]
♪ ♪
- Hey.
Jesus, I never thought
I'd be thrilled coming back
to Em City.
Man, oh man,
I feel great.
You know, you sit up
there on death row,
counting down the days,
knowing all you got
in your future
is the sharp end of
a lethal needle.
I'm telling ya,
my heart is pumping so fast,
it's gonna explode
out of my chest.
I am just so fucking
happy to be alive.
I'm sorry.
Am I talking too much?
What?
Been a while
since I did this.
[screaming]
- I lied.
Alexander Vogel
was my friend.
[gurgling]
- The last plague
is the worst one.
That's the one that messes
up our ideas about loving god.
All the first-born in the land
of Egypt killed on one night
when everyone's asleep.
You the oldest child
in the family?
Woulda been you,
no questions asked.
Pharaoh's son dies too.
His heir.
His pride and joy.
His sweet,
innocent, little boy.
- Lights out, Charlie.
- You're HIV positive.
- That is not possible.
- I'm going to schedule
you for counseling
and make the arrangements
for your transfer.
- Transfer?
- All inmates who
test positive for HIV
are to be isolated
in one place.
- This isn't happening to me.
Can I offer you
something to drink, Father?
Cappuccino?
- You have
a cappuccino machine?
- Well, I'm trying to make the
best of a worst-case situation.
The only upside to being
in this unit is the hacks
think we're already dead
so they pretty much
let us do as we please.
- Yeah, I'll have a cappuccino.
Sure.
- Okay, sit.
You know, Father, I've always
considered you nothing,
but a hack in black.
- Well, I know that a lot of
the other inmates don't trust me
but I'm trying to demonstrate
that I'm more than just
a stoolie for the warden.
- Well, for me it goes
much deeper than that.
In my neighborhood, growing up,
a boy became one of four things:
a doctor or a lawyer or
a priest or a businessman.
- I understand.
- And in order to
become a businessman,
you had to
burn the saint.
You know about
burning the saint?
- Oh, yeah.
That's when you burn
a picture of a saint
in order to renounce your
obligation to the church,
in order to prove your loyalty
to the other businessmen.
- Right.
- Thank you.
- I thought it was a mistake,
the test saying
I was HIV positive, so I had my
own doctor check the results.
And it's true.
- Well, you know,
being HIV today
does not necessarily
mean a death sentence.
Many people live very--
- I've heard all the speeches,
Father, so save your breath.
I mean, in my business,
you're always ready to die,
ready for the quick shot
in the back of the head.
But it's the slow dying
that's different.
It gives you time
to think, you know?
Time to reflect
on your life.
I want to make
a confession.
- A confession?
- I want to confess
to everything I've done
in the course of my life.
Everything.
And make a good
act of contrition.
- All right.
- It's been a while.
Can you get me started?
- Bless me, Father,
for I have sinned.
- Right, right.
It's like riding a bicycle.
Bless me, Father,
for I have sinned.
My last confession was...
- Hey, boss,
you have two seconds?
- Yeah, sit down.
- Years ago, Nino Schibetta
taught me how to play this game,
Pinocchio.
- [laughs]
It's pinnacle,
you dumb fuck.
- We were good friends,
good partners.
He said I was more Italian
than any nigga in this place.
- Adebisi, you want
to waltz down memory lane?
Go dance somewhere else.
- You and I could
be partners.
- I already got
a partner: Wangler.
- But you hate Wangler.
- I hate you too.
So what the fuck does that mean?
I still remember when
you split my head open.
- You were trying to kill me
because I was a strong enemy.
I could be a strong ally.
- I'm listening.
- If something were
to happen to Wangler,
we could be partners.
- Sure.
- Good. Good.
♪ ♪
- Yo, did you see that?
- Yeah.
- We gots to whack Adebisi.
- Nappa said to chill.
- Fuck Nappa.
Nappa's gone.
- Yeah. Word.
- I know you're having trouble
with Wangler and his crew.
- Yeah, those bitches--
- Chico, you want to
let the man talk?
- This is simple.
You help me get rid
of them niggers,
we take over
the drug trade.
- Simple, huh?
What about
the white guys?
- They don't care
who they work with,
as long as the job
gets done.
- You're asking us to help
you get rid of your people.
- They are not my people.
I am an African.
- Okay.
Okay, Adebisi.
Deal.
- Gentlemen, this room
here is the computer room.
Call me crazy, but I think
when I see people in this room,
they should be
using computers.
But you three aren't,
which leads me to guess,
you know, 'cause
I'm such a bright fella,
that you're here
for a different reason.
Now forgive me
for being distrustful.
That probably means
you're up to no good.
That's right. Come on.
Take a hike.
Let's go.
You too, Simon.
- I am using the computer.
- Oh.
Well, can I give you
one little small suggestion?
Turn it on.
- You reap what you sow.
Pharaoh got
what he deserved.
But what about Abdul,
the farmer,
who woke up
with frogs on his face,
his cattle dead from anthrax,
his wife fucked up with lesions,
his only child dead,
all 'cause of a leader
he didn't even
get to vote for?
What about all the people
who reap what they don't sow?
Babies born addicted to crack,
four-year-olds molested,
ethnic cleansing?
What about you?
Is there a law in
the universe or something?
A law about
needless suffering?
A law that even God can't break?
♪ ♪
[dramatic musical sting]
- That's it?
- Yeah.
- You sure?
- Check again.
- That's all there is,
get the fuck out of here.
- Ah, how do.
- Yo, what'd you get?
- A birthday card
from my mom, yo.
- Ah, okay,
it's your birthday?
- Today.
- How old are you, nigga?
- 18
up in this motherfucker.
- Eight-fucking-teen,
all right.
- I guess that makes you
a motherfucking man, Holmes.
- Get the fuck out of here.
I've been a man
a long time.
Playin' me out.
- Well, son, let's go lick
these titties like men.
- Yo, that sound
cool to me.
Yo, bricks, you down?
- Yo, check it out.
I gotta make
a phone call, all right?
I'ma catch up
to y'all, all right?
- All right.
- Peace out, peace out.
Lauryn?
How you doing?
Yeah?
How's the baby?
That's good.
Hey, didn't you
forget something?
My birthday.
Nah.
That's okay.
It's okay, you know?
But I wrote you,
asking for, you know,
some boots because my shit's
just kind of hurt.
I know money's tight so just do
whatever you got to do, okay?
Yeah.
All right.
Look, I gotta go, okay?
Yeah.
I love you too.
All right.
Bye.
Ma, you seen Lauryn?
- Not lately.
She brought the baby around
about three weeks ago,
left him with me
for the weekend.
- Yeah?
Where she be going?
- I don't know.
- You don't ask?
- I asked.
She said to
visit a sick friend.
Only, honey, I could tell
by the way she said it,
there was no sick friend.
- Hmm.
Well, you never
liked her anyway.
- This is why.
She is a mother.
She should be home with
her child, not off gallivanting.
- Well, who's she
gallivanting with?
- I got my suspicions.
- Like who, ma?
- Ronnie Smith.
- Ronnie Smith?
What the fuck?
She know I don't like
that motherfucker.
Come on.
- And I got
other suspicions.
- Like?
What, Ma?
Ma, I know that face.
Don't hold back on me.
- I think
he's hurting the baby.
Little Jordan's got
black and blue marks,
and she said he fell.
Babies fall,
but not that much.
- Fuck!
Motherfucker!
Fuck him!
I'm getting my son!
I'm getting the fuck
out of here
and I'm gettin'
that motherfucker!
I don't give a fuck!
- I said it once before
and I'll say it again,
all women is bitches.
All women, bitches.
Then the nigga she fucking
is hurting my son,
my seed,
my prince.
What the fuck?
Come on, what kind
of shit is that?
What the fuck am I going
to do in here, huh?
How can I help him
in here?
- Yo,
you and me both--
we know people that
could make this right.
I use my people, there's no way
the cops will be able
to trace it back to you.
- Make the call.
Any price,
I don't give a fuck.
I want
Ronnie smith dead.
Dead, motherfucker.
Pierce?
My wife too.
[dramatic musical sting]
Ma?
Yeah, it's me.
Look, I want you to go over
to Lauryn's tonight
and get the baby out
of the house, okay?
Never mind why.
Just go over there and get
the baby out the house tonight.
You hear me?
Get him out
the house, Ma.
All right.
- Moses finally got the chosen
people to the promised land.
Things didn't really
get any better.
They were
constantly at war
with the Canaanites,
the Hittites, the Jebusites.
Eventually, the Israelites
were completely crushed
by the Romans.
The suffering continues.
Which leads me to wonder,
is there too much
suffering in the world?
Fuck the world.
Here in Oz,
there's too much suffering
even for a guilty man to endure.
- Hey, yo, Bricks,
you coming?
- Nah, yo.
I'm going to catch up
to y'all in a minute.
- All right.
- ♪ Happy birthday to me ♪
♪ Happy motherfuckin'
birthday to me ♪
♪ Happy birthday ♪
- ♪ To Kenny ♪
♪ Happy birthday to you ♪
[tense jazzy music]
♪ ♪
[bright tone]